---
title: "My next talk at Code4Future"
layout: post
date: 2019-10-31 18:00
image: /assets/images/code4future-2019.png
headerImage: true
tag:
- blockchain
category: blog
author: jaack
description: An in-depth look at my research on the two use cases I care about most
published: true
lang: en
---
After the talk at Ala34, my mini-research project to tell two use cases
very concrete but also futuristic will be described, in more detail, in a 45-minute workshop during Code4Future, an event promoted by HTML.it in collaboration with Talent Garden and Seedble, next November 8th and 9th.

The event will take place in the new **Talent Garden of Roma Ostiense**, which will open shortly - I will have the opportunity to take a tour, I hope. This workshop takes its roots from research on IPFS and non-fungible tokens [which I have already published](https://jaack.me/blockchain-201-ipfs-token-non-fungibili/), but revolves around the needs for a change in mindset that the user must start to form: it is useless to think about reforming the internet, if the most used password is still 'password', or '1234' or, even worse '4321' (which seems difficult because it is the opposite of the easiest stuff you can think of).

I will reflect on terms of cultural responsibility and societal change, always describing the two strands: IPFS, as a paradigm shift of a shared, decentralized internet in everyone's hands; and non-fungible tokens, a new way of thinking about physical assets in the digital world, with the security of cryptography.

I await you, and I have 10 tickets at a reduced price: to attend my workshop you need to
take the **Master Pass** and book the workshop. During registration, you must enter the code **BarbieriC4F** to be entitled to the discount.

Update! I also have a discount code for completely free tickets, using this code: **FREEBARBIERIC4F**. See you there!

[**Get a ticket for Code4Future**](https://www.code4future.it/#ticketing)
